## Abstract

In the last decade, the evidence-based policy movement gained
significant traction in Europe as well as globally. Its focus has been
to increase the rigour of the evidence generated, to improve the
credibility and understandability of evidence created for policy
purposes. As evidence-based policies often rely on scientific evidence,
the evidence-based policy movement went hand in hand with the efforts to
increase the transparency and reproducibility of scientific research
(See: (Munafò et al. 2017) and in an EU context (J 2015; Commission et
al. 2020; European Commission and Directorate-General for Research and
Innovation 2020).)

Our [Report on the European Music
Economy](https://zenodo.org/record/6464782#.Ylq7JNpBzIU), and its
supporting document, [Economy of music in Europe: Novel data collection
methods and indicators](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6464990) will
follow the Open Policy Analysis Guidelines and the best practices of the
European Union’s Knowledge For Policy and the [European Open Science
Cloud](https://eosc-portal.eu/) portal.

The current version of the *Report on the European Music Economy
\[outline\]* is a research planning document that sets out our 9
transparency criteria following the best practices (Level 3) of the Open
Policy Analysis Guidelines, and provides some illustrations on how a
“live policy document” works with a few reproducible datasets[1][2].

## Open Policy Analysis Requirements (Level 3)

### Open Output

1.  **Ensure unified output by defining the most appropriate format for
    the report before publishing, and justifying changes to format
    output across reports.** Best practice: A detailed description of
    output is provided, including a sample output published pre-release
    of final results, using version control within and across reports

2.  **Establish a clear link between input and output by displaying how
    the output changes under different assumptions**. Best practice: An
    interactive tool allowing for adjusted inputs is provided, and its
    underlying code shares the same key sections of code behind the
    analysis section.

## Open Materials

1.  **Provide clear accounts of all methodological procedures in a way
    that is easily interpreted by an informed reader.** Code is clearly
    documented into a dynamic document, or open notebook. No
    spreadsheets. Our Methodologies are part of our Proposal, and they
    can be fined as dynamic document on the Github repo
    [github.com/dataobservatory-eu/report-european-music-economy](https://github.com/dataobservatory-eu/report-european-music-economy),
    and versions with metadata and DOI of the methodology document on
    the Zenodo open science repository under the title [Digital Music
    Observatory](https://zenodo.org/communities/music_observatory/).

2.  **Share raw (or analytic) data and materials in a way that the
    analysis is reproducible with minimal effort.**

3.  **Share an open report that includes clear accounts of all
    methodological procedures, data, and assumptions.** Best practice:
    All project components are organized in a selfcontained folder using
    a Standard File Structure (SFS), and a readme file is included. We
    place all files with SFS on the European open science repository
    Zenodo on
    [zenodo.org/communities/music\_observatory/](https://zenodo.org/communities/music_observatory/).

4.  **Label and document each input, including data, research, and
    guesswork.** Best practice: List all inputs, their sources, and
    provide links or detailed references. We use DublinCore and DataCite
    mandatory and recommended descriptive metadata to provide not only
    full bibliographic reference, but also full findability and
    interoperabilty, and clear reuse conditions.

5.  **Ensure that code/spreadsheets are reproducible**. Best practice:
    *For code*: Code is easily readable and possible to run with just
    one click. *Spreadsheets* are published with the code, and the code
    re-creates the spreadsheet from the latest data on one click. New
    runs are placed in the Digital Music Observatory community
    space\](<https://zenodo.org/communities/music_observatory>) on
    Zenodo, like our [Individuals Who Never Used the
    Internet](https://zenodo.org/record/5121507#.Ylrc9NpBzIU) dataset.

6.  **Use a version control strategy.** Best practice: All team members
    use version control software and track changes in a shared project
    repository. This document is placed in a version controlled
    repostiory
    [github.com/dataobservatory-eu/report-european-music-economy](https://github.com/dataobservatory-eu/report-european-music-economy)

Following the state-of-the-art in reproducible, open policy analysis, we
will introduce the “live policy document” developed by Reprex in
cooperation with IVIR (in science), and Artisjus and SOZA (in music
industry application.). This will follow the highest level or
reproducability of transferability. The valuation report on Bulgarian
music will be contained in a clearly documented dynamic document that
contains the assumptions, software code to read in the data from the
data sources, perform the modelling, create the visualizations, document
citations, and place it in the same file with the conclusions. Our “live
policy documents” with a press of a button are reading in new
information, change model outputs and visualizations, update the
bibliography, create an html, PDF, ebook and docx output, and place the
results on the Zenodo open science repository with an authoritative copy
and DOI. Change the data input from Bulgaria to Belgium, and
re-interpret the model results, tables, visualization in the document,
you get a scientifically valid valuation for Belgium.

## References

Antal, Daniel, Joost Poort, and Guilio Botazzi. 2022. *Report on the
European Music Economy \[Outline\]*.
<https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6464782>.

Commission, European, Directorate-General for Research, Innovation, L
Baker, I Cristea, T Errington, K Jaśko, et al. 2020. *Reproducibility of
Scientific Results in the EU : Scoping Report*. Edited by W Lusoli.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union.
<https://doi.org/doi/10.2777/341654>.

European Commission, and Directorate-General for Research and
Innovation. 2020. *<span class="nocase">Progress on Open Science</span>
Towards a Shared Research Knowledge System. Final Report of the Open
Science Policy Platform.* Luxembourg: Publications Office of the
European Union. <https://doi.org/10.2777/00139>.

J, Wilson. 2015. *Evidence-Based Policy Making in the European
Commission*. Edited by Elisabeth Lannoo. CIC Report 7440. Oslo (Norway):
CICERO Centre for International Climate; Environmental Research.
<http://www.cicero.uio.no/en/posts/news/report-from-science-to-policy-how-to-improve-the-dialogue/>.

Munafò, Marcus R., Brian A. Nosek, Dorothy V. M. Bishop, Katherine S.
Button, Christopher D. Chambers, Nathalie Percie du Sert, Uri Simonsohn,
Eric-Jan Wagenmakers, Jennifer J. Ware, and John P. A. Ioannidis. 2017.
“A Manifesto for Reproducible Science.” *Nature Human Behaviour* 1 (1):
0021. <https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-016-0021>.

[1] Report on the European Music Economy \[outline\] (Antal, Poort, and
Botazzi 2022)

[2] If our Proposal is successful and gets funded, the document will
start to contain reused data from 2023, new data from 2024, and can be
first read as draft policy document in the summer of 2024.
